Dependency injection in Oryx (#1735)
spryker/spryker-docs: _drafts/oryx/dependency-injection.md

# Service Layer in Oryx

The service layer in Oryx serves as the foundation for the business logic, with dependency injection (DI) playing a crucial role.

The main objective of the service layer in Oryx is to abstract all of the system functionality, including querying backend services, data caching and reloading, state management, and reactivity.

Furthermore, DI is utilized by many higher-level elements and concepts in Oryx, ranging from adapters and normalizers to HTTP interceptors, authentication, product loading, cart management, and the checkout process.

## Npm package

The `@spryker-oryx/di` package provides dependency injection not only to Oryx applications but also to other packages and can even be used outside the Oryx framework. It includes a variety of useful utilities to streamline working with dependency injection, such as:

- TypeScript models definitions (e.g. Providers)
- `Injector` - the implementation of a DI container in TypeScript
- Functions used to set up and manage injectors (`createInjector()`, `getInjector()`, etc.)

> - Utilities that can be used to resolve dependencies (`inject` and `resolve`)

Reviewer: Are these the only utilities or just examples?

Author: those are the only utilities "that can be used to resolve dependencies"

In a typical Oryx application, the application orchestrator automatically handles much of the work related to setting up the DI container. Nevertheless, the `@spryker-oryx/di` library provides a set of tools that can be used to further customize and fine-tune the dependency injection as needed.

# Using services

## inject vs resolve

There are two primary methods for injecting services and dependencies:

- `inject` – usually used inside services
- `resolve` – usually used inside (web) components

### inject()

```ts
export class MyService {
  constructor(protected otherService = inject(SomeOtherService)) {}
}
```

> The `inject` method is used to inject services from the current injector. This method can be used when the injection context is defined, such as in services at construction time or in provided factories that use `useFactory`.

Reviewer: What is `construction time` in this context?

Author: Good one, I think we should change it to services' constructors. 
```suggestion
The `inject` method is used to inject services from the current injector. This method can be used when the injection context is defined, such as in services' constructor or in provided factories that use `useFactory`.
```

### resolve()

```ts
export class MyComponent extends LitElement {
  protected myService = resolve(MyService);
}
```

The `resolve` method works similarly to `inject`, but it tries to resolve the current injector using context (by default `globalThis`). This method is suitable to use in components, especially in web components, where the injection context may not be defined at construction time.

### One container by default

A typical Oryx application usually uses one global DI container, which is set up by the app orchestrator. This is currently the recommended approach for Oryx applications that utilize web components, as it provides a streamlined solution that typically addresses all requirements of the app.

# Defining services

> In Oryx, we follow certain conventions for defining services.

Reviewer: Do the following sections describe these conventions?

Author: yes, exactly

> ## String-Based Token

Reviewer: Do we recommend the readers to use these conventions or is this just for reference?

  })
  // ...
  .create();
```

In this example, customized cart service is provided by specifying the providers property within a feature object. This way, you can easily manage and extend the services provided by your Oryx application.

# Injecting INJECTOR

In some cases, dependencies may be optional or resolved at runtime, making it difficult to inject them directly into a service. In these situations, you can inject the current DI container using the `INJECTOR` token, like in the following example:

```ts
constructor(protected injector = inject(INJECTOR)) {}
```

With the `INJECTOR` token injected, you can use the injector's `inject` method to dynamically resolve dependencies at runtime. For example:

```ts
someServiceMethod(field) {
	const template = this.injector.inject(`${FormFieldRenderer}-${field.type}`);
}

```

In this example, the `inject` method is used to resolve a dependency based on a dynamic token that includes the field type. Since the field type is only known at runtime, it is not possible to inject the dependency directly. Instead, the `INJECTOR` token is injected, allowing the `inject` method to resolve the dependency dynamically.

# Multi Providers

> While most dependencies in an app correspond to only one value, such as a class, there are situations where we want to have dependencies with multiple different values, for example HTTP interceptors or normalizers. However, it's not very practical to configure all these dependencies separately, because we want to access them all together at once. Therefore, we can use a special type of dependency that accepts multiple values, not just one, linked to the exact same dependency injection token. These are called multi-providers.

Reviewer: In the second sentence, replace "we" with what actually needs to access values at once.

Author: ```suggestion
While most dependencies in an app correspond to only one value, such as a class, there are situations where dependencies with multiple different values are needed, for example HTTP interceptors or normalizers. However, it's not very practical to configure all these dependencies separately, because the system or application wants to access them all together at once. Therefore, a special type of dependency that accepts multiple values, not just one, linked to the exact same dependency injection token can be used. These are called multi-providers.
```

## Providing

There are different types of providers based on their token naming with an asterisk (`*`):

### Providers with a single asterisk at the end of their token name (`[token-base-name]*`):

> - These create multi-providers with an array of elements.

Reviewer: What does `create` mean in this context?

Author: "setup" or maybe better: "define"?
